production/schemas/README.md, before:

# production/schemas
This folder is used to generate schemas from DDL files. The system schema DDL files should be stored together with the components to which they belong. The contents in the system directory should refer to these DDL file locations. Schemas used for tests should be placed under _schemas/test_.  This way, multiple tests that use the same schema don't have to duplicate the same boilerplate CMake instructions. In an ideal world, only one copy of any given .ddl file (system or test) should exist in our entire tree.

Note that all the schema builds are serialized right now so that they don't stomp on each other's database instance if builds are run in parallel (make -jN). This serialization is accomplished simply by having the target of each directory depend on the target before it. Please keep this in mind when adding schema directories.

All schemas are published to **\<build directory\>/schemas/generated**. You can use the variable **GAIA_GENERATED_SCHEMAS** to point to this directory. It is set in the top level production CMake file.

## system
Add schema builds under the relevant component (catalog, rules, etc). See the appropriate CMake file to refer to the target you need to depend upon. Each system schema generates a target called **generate\_\<directory\_name\>\_headers**. For example the generated catalog header has a target named **generate\_catalog\_headers**.

## test
Every test schema generates two targets. The first is the generated header as if the schema were being used in isolation. The second combines all the system schemas and test schema into one "db" header.  The "db" target may become obsolete once we have persistence. Right now it is used to generate headers that are in sync with the system tables in terms of the type identifiers assigned to each table.  Following the convention above, the two targets are:
* **generate\_<directory_name\>\_headers** for stand-alone
* **generate\_<directory_name\>\_db\_headers** for a "full db" generated header.

Commit message:

[GAIAPLAT-251] Solve cyclic dependency issue by splitting EDC classes into .h/.cpp (#699)
Change the EDC generation logic from header-only to header + CPP. The main reason for this change is to support circular dependencies between EDC classes (eg. one-to-one relationships).

I took the opportunity to refactor the generation code. Now every section of the generated code is wrapped into its own function. 

Splitting the EDC classes into header and CPP required a major refactoring of our build system and the public-facing CMake functions.

### Catalog:
- Refactor of the Gaia EDC generation code:
  - The generation code produces .cpp and .h.
  - Access to the catalog has been abstracted out into "catalog_facade.hpp" API.
- Add tests for one-to-one relationships. Note the feature was already "available" it was just not tested.
- Rename the gaia_relatinships_child/gaia_relationships_parent fields in gaia_table into incoming_relationships and outgoing_relationships.
- Add API to generate the CPP file in catalog.hpp

### CMake:
- Add process_schema_internal() function to translate schemas into EDC classes and build a static library from it. Now the code can depend directly on the library target. 
- Improve public-facing Cmake function to generate EDC/Rules.
- Change `GAIA_GENERATED_SCHEMAS` to `GAIA_GENERATED_CODE` and move the directory to: `${GAIA_PROD_BUILD}/gaia_generated`.
- Add -ftime-trace to the compile flags.

### Rules:
- Remove usage of event_log to reduce compile time. Disabled related tests.

### Examples
- Updated examples to use the new Cmake functions.

production/schemas/README.md, after:

# production/schemas
This folder contains the logic to generate the EDC code from DB schemas. 

System schemas do not have a DDL file, they are generated at runtime during the catalog bootstrap. The generation code uses the database name (eg. `catalog`) to generate the EDC code directly from the Gaia database.

The DDL for the schemas used for tests should be placed under `schemas/test`. This way, multiple tests that use the same schema don't have to duplicate the same boilerplate CMake instructions. In an ideal world, only one copy of any given .ddl file (system or test) should exist in our entire tree.

The generation process creates a static library named after the database we are generating. For instance, the incubator.ddl lead to the creation of a static library named `edc_barn_storage` (since `barn_storage` is the name of the database). The static library exposes as INTERFACE the headers so you can just link it to your target.

You can find the generated code in `\<build directory\>/gaia_generated`. You can use the variable `GAIA_GENERATED_CODE` to point to this directory. It is set in the top level production CMake file.
